#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass docbook
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures false
\graphics default
\default_output_format pdf
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 0
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
SAKE RISC-V Processor Reference Manual
\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
01/04/2021 - v1.0
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Purpose Research (www.purpe.com)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
Sake is a softcore RISC-V processor capable of exectuing the RV32IM instruction
 subset.
 This document provides an overview of its implementation and specifies
 the operating modes, interrupt handling sequence and its processor and
 device registers.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
CPU Architecture Overview
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Sake is a von Neumann style processor.
 It has a 3 stage pipeline and a PC-133 SDRAM controller.
 The processor and SDRAM memory both run at a frequency of 72 MHz.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The process has 3 UART ports, 5 SPI ports and 2 I2C ports.
 It also has 3 PWM channels and 16 GPIO pins.
 All these perirpherals use DMA to exchange data with the processor and
 have their own individual interrupt vectors for efficent signalling.
 The GPIO pins are capable of triggering an interrupt on individual level-change
s.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The processor exposes a flat 32-bit memory model to applications.
 Interrupts are directed via a 16 entry Interrupt Vector Table.
 A special CONTEXT-SWITCH instruction is provided to aid in interrupt servicing
 and context switching.
 Sake does not support the RISC-V esyscall, ??.
 instructions.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The processor has 2KB of ROM memory in which the startup bootcode is stored.
 When the processor is started this 2KB of code is copied from the ROM to
 main memory address 0x00000000 and exectued thereby begining the boot sequence.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
